Shane Douglas again foot UK were here
with checks on a second valve he's going
to talk to us about portal 2 and it's
delayed why is that not really we've
announced a date we're gonna hit that
day and it's very short delay it's not
very shortest alert huh but what you
didn't you know I'm making the game
better it was a lot of polish and a lot
of you know portal 2 is just filled with
tiny little things that all build up to
make a great game and so just really
polishing those are ok but there is more
complexity we've been playing some of
the cop today and you've got these you
but the gels and all of that so do you
think it's a trickier game at all um so
we worked really hard and we're eating
testers in every single day at valve
they're testing a single player in coop
and the idea was to add flex it II and
add tools but not add difficulty so you
can watch a video on youtube and see the
crazy thing someone's doing and be like
I'll never be able to do that but
honestly you'll be able to as you
progress through learn how to do that so
that when you get to that step all those
things will come together and it's not
difficult for you it simply complex for
you and you keeps problem solving your
involvement is off the you know in a
writing capacity centered on that and
how do you find writing that much
dialogue when it's mostly one-sided how
do you how do you keep it fun and
cavities generally uses a lot of people
we use what writing room where we kind
of go around and if you can't make each
other laugh the problem is not going to
be good for the game as well and so it's
really keeping the intensity up and just
working it through the thing of course
is you're working on a game you're
hearing the same comedy bits again and
again and again no joke holds up to
hearing at five archives but there's a
there's a initial reaction that you can
definitely gauge and the minute we
dropped in the Stephen Merchant stuff
people or more like oh god this is great
i can listen to them forever we actually
added that where there's a lot of places
if you don't progress forward you can
listen to a lot of Stephen Merchant
Asian
story you my life is also job down here
in manufacturing but yes soon the
forward when we only had sex Jupiter
himself nepotism if they're getting even
worse or job tending to all the steady
humans that the we've been playing the
coop today so it's GLaDOS and orange
button and blue Bob and the relationship
with them is kind of different to the
relationship with chela she's a bit more
aggressive with them would you say she's
a bit more aggressive in a different way
she's actually canceled affinity for
them and she will often kind of step
back and treat them differently because
she really hates feelings but you know
the bots have some problems and she
think she likes but she's definitely
still being glad out so she's still
using them in her GLaDOS way tell us a
little bit about the the gels that
change the properties of surfaces yeah
so similar actually to the original
portal team we had this team cult of the
paint team and there they were
seattle-based students and they come up
with this really cool concept and at
first we kind of struggle with what it
all means and then it really became
clearer portal one was about surfaces
and you look at surfing I could put a
pole there I kampra portal there what
paint lets us do is change that where
you can look at a surface and go okay I
can't put a portal there but I can
change the properties of that surface
and so that just changes the way you
look at puzzles and you can I can say
that in your meal I know that doesn't
really seem like that different of a
thing but really you'll see people we
have clay tests of they go through and
they hit that spot and they'll want it I
have more complexity the puzzle than
there is with really with the paint like
oh it's really simple thing that wants
to hit that turtle they're like oh
that's hope that's how I should be
solving these illnesses how are you
doing and this is really just
breakthrough kind of changing up
always look at the positives okay along
with the added mechanics and we
mentioned previously the games the games
longer people be pleased to hear that
and what kind of like you to come for
the culpa in the single pack so portal
when you talk about the length of the
game it's really kind of hard because
portal 1 2 3 our game for smart or not
that bright 1215 our game 30 our game
who knows right so I'd like to talk
about it in comparison to that and so a
single player originally shooting to be
twice as long as portal one dan we ended
up going over it's longer than that
portal to coop is about twice as long so
you're looking at about you know four
kinds okay cool and it's been said their
ps3 version is going to be it's going to
be special it's going to be the kind of
comprehensive version you tell us so
tell us about that so first all the
versions if you sat down in front of a
mac and pc in front of a 360 or ps3 sort
of playing the game the core games the
same everyone's getting the same
experience there we're the ps3
difference for the council's is it will
get regular updates because we can do
quick updates on that way of steam
integrated with the ps3 and so since we
can do quick updates like we like to do
that let's just keep that in line with
the pc and mac version so we have
cross-platform play so those three
platforms can play against each other
and then we also have if you buy it on
the ps3 and you register your steam
account with it you'll actually get a
copy on soon as well well it's great
thanks for talking this Chet and if we
get the platform and the restate that we
fantastic so Paul 2 is coming out on
April 22nd for the PC Mac 360 and ps3
it's you though
it's been a long time how have you been
wish much I've been really busy being
you dad you know after you murdered me
what okay look we both said a lot of
things that you're going to regret but I
think we can put our differences behind
us for science you monster